Today I worked on details for the first level I will build. I included the various resources involved in that level,
the various units for the level, and the prices involved in the production of those units. I decided upon the
countries involved in the level, the units that each country can build, and what historical event the level is
going to be set in. I included in my list of details some of the various features I intend to add such as having
wounded troops, and giving a way to reintegrate them into an army, or having some units give some resources when
they are destroyed; for example a destroyed tank might give some metal. I also put some thought into how the
battles will work, and how resource production will function. I am intending to have each bit of territory
produce a certain amount of each resource, basing that amount off of what information I can find of the resources
during that battle/war.

An incredible amount of work has been done. I designed two of my maps and worked on the program itself.
Between 50% and 75% of the basic programing for the first map is complete. The most critical thing will be
constructing the GUI for the game and making it functional. I also need to finish up work on how battles will
work and get the units working right. Then I will have to work on the AI for the first map, which will be most
difficult. I then will have to work on the next map which I plan to be a "generated" environment, that is to say
it will create AIs with different "personalities", generate random names for things, and generate who starts out
with what. (This could get very complicated.) I am also planning for the next map to be in "space" (it is in reality
a grid of hexagons). I also want the next map to focus somewhat more on individual units, with massive ships
being able to smash countless smaller ones. I plan for the next map to also include politics, and trade with other
players and AIs.

More work has been completed. I have commenced construction on the first level: Box Canyon (the Spain map
level will be too complicated to complete before the first deliverable is due). It will be quite simple and include
only the most basic concepts of movement and combat, which will mean that the AI can be quite simple (it will
randomly move around). I have also set goals for the final map: Galactic Interest. Additionally I looked further
into constructing GUIs which I still need to build. I discovered that there are ways to visual build GUIs which
I need to find out how to get working. This will make my task much easier as I will be free to spend more effort
on making the game work right. The project is progressing but I fear my long and growing list of ideas will
leave me dissatisfied with the final product.

The first map has been completed. It is quite simple, but it works, which is the most important thing. It has
two teams facing each other in a box canyon. The combat is simple; when one or more unit from each team are in
a tile there is a battle. The battles take each soldiers attack value and check if they hit an enemy. If they do
hit then their damage is distributed randomly across the enemy units in the tile. The battle is reported in the 
info box. If a unit's health reaches zero then it dies. This is also added to the info screen by having a list of
the units that have died. The cause of death for each unit is randomly selected from a list, and has little relation
to the actual battles. When one team is wiped out the other team wins. In combat there are two unusual units;
Locamotive (he forgot how to spell his name when he joined the army), who has a 50% chance to shoot his
team instead of the enemy team, and Cathedral who only has a 1% chance to hit an enemy (if he does hit he
does a LOT of damage).

The first map has been revised and made better. I changed it to balance the teams due to green team's slight advantage.
I added healing which happens in two ways. The first one was added in version 1.1 and gives each territory a slight value
that is distributed randomly across a team when it is controlled by someone (uncontested). The second type of healing was
added to the final version and heals two health when a unit is not fighting. Also the number of units was changed from five
in version 1.0, to ten in version 1.1, and then increased up to twenty in version 1.2. Another feature added in 1.2 is a slight
penalty for having too many units in a tile; their damage is reduced, and they take slightly more damage (this prevents the winning
strategy from being pilling all your units at the enemy, and instead forces the player to contest all three central zones to reduce the
penalty and possibly break through and take territory to gain additional healing). The healing when not fighting also creates a
potential strategy of cycling through units to keep all your units alive; the team that loses the first unit almost always loses.

The space map is progressing well. The map has been redesigned to be slightly more reasonable in size; this map is 307 tiles,
about 1/4 of the size of the old one! The game has been set up to generate 307 "planets" randomly assigning the owner and size;
with 307 tiles the randomness should create a relatively equal distribution. The names of the planets are from a list I created using
city and country names (most of them are real). I also have set up a plan for the battles to be reported in a similar way to the last
map; there will be humorously incompetent admirals (I like reusing things like the characters from the last map) commanding fleets
that will be more dangerous to themselves (this is how it will be reported, the game will actually conduct the battles in a fairly
realistic manner like the last one). Also I plan to have player "country" names be random (a chance for even more of my strange
sense of humor). Theoretically the fleets could fight each other, but this has yet to be tested, and more work needs to be done.

The work is progressing slowly; the buttons are for selecting planets are going slowly but are mostly finished. Work continues and
the project should be finished on time. The player description has been set up, and I am noting that I may have trouble with doubles
not being big enough for the quantities of resources the players will want to work with. The descriptions of the commanders is partially
complete but needs reworking. Other things I need to set up are the diplomacy, changing the government, fleet control, construction and
queuing, and tech research. The fleets will need to be modified to make movement work properly, tech will require only a little work, and
setting up construction queues will require a little bit of additional work. Changing governments will require a fair amount of work
because of all the rules about what governments can have what policies, and how changes will be made.

SpaceMap has been given a basic level of functionality. It currently has two players skirmish over the galaxy, but lacks the diplomacy that the
final version will have. It also lacks technology development and doesn't have all of the ships available. It does however have the battles function
correctly. I should warn the user that fighters have not been implemented making hangars completely useless in this version. An intentional and
interesting feature is that battles only occur at the end of the defenders turn. This allows the defender time to move in ships, and allows them to install
defensive batteries, the most powerful unit currently available. Another important thing to note is that there are no movement restrictions in this version.
The game also seems to function as a countdown to when the players run out of food, but running out of food will have no consequences for the player.
The queue system seems to work well, but I would like to add canceling. The populations of planets are currently not adjustable as they are planned to be.
Fleet control has been refined to allow the player to select a planet and then use indexes to select the ships. A really nice feature that I have found is that if
you select index 0 and hit enter enough, you can select the whole fleet easily. The cancel button deselects all of the ships at the planet. To move ships, select
them and then go to the galactic view mode and select the planet.  If you need to you can move them again if you change your mind. I recommend that you
purchase economic buildings and defensive batteries at the beginning to prepare yourself better for later in the game. Remember that y mines produce metal,
factories produce industry, and citizens make whatever they feel like making (random).

SpaceMap has been improved significantly. All of the ships have been added except for transports, which I may not add in the end. The map has been
changed to be around 1/3 of the size, and number labels have been added to make it easier to manipulate. The planets sizes have been increased to keep
the map approximately the same size. I have also noted that adding a button to have the game upgrade stuff for you will be useful. The game also need to
have the building fixed so that the player doesn't build more buildings than they are supposed to. I have additionally added another feature: politicians; the
politicians are put in various positions to give bonuses, but beware every politician also has a penalty, and sometimes they are worse than the bonus. Try
switching politicians around to see what fits your plan best; switching between economic and military bonuses during war can give you the decisive edge
you need to dominate the galaxy. In also plan to increase ship sizes, and intend to make defense batteries more powerful, along with hangars. Fighters are
now functional also (I'm pretty sure they are doing what I want them to do), and are automatically refilled after battles.

The AI has been partially added. It has been given the logic to analyze the threats to it and set itself to the appropriate mode. It then researches it's techs
accordingly. Then based on it's food situation it adjusts it's population growth rate (more population is better, but negative food is very bad). After this
it auto-upgrades the ships (which currently does nothing since the AI doesn't build ships). After this the AI will set it's queue (this has not been
implemented yet), and then move it's ships to protect itself, or even attack it's enemies (only if it is at war, this part has also not been implemented yet as it
would require the AI to build ships to move them and it can't build anything). The AI will also have logic for using both what it builds and what it already
has to try to avoid unnecessary fights. The AI's modes are a way to make the AI focus at different ratios on economic and military development. The AI will
try to disperse it's structures so as to make losing a planet less important (it will only sacrifice a planet if thinks it can't deploy enough ships to stop the 
invasion). It will also try to a looser degree work with other AI's if they are at war with the same player (they might simultaneously attack the player so that
the player will lose a planet). The AI might also send distracting raids with small ships to divert some of the player's ships and waste a few resources to force the
player to make peace (repairing damaged ships costs stuff). I am also adding difficulty levels because theoretically the AI will analyze most information more
easily and effectively than the player (technically the player could play exactly like the AI plays, and if the player plays it right they have a slight advantage over
the AIs in analyzing combat advantages (and I mean slight), and the player will have an advantage over the AIs in diplomacy (the AIs can be influenced with
diplomacy, the player can't) and possibly in constructions). The difficulty levels give a bonus or a penalty to the AI that effects it in combat, and in economic matters.