SpaceMapReadMe by: Joshua Givens
made for Der-Neue-Kriegsspiel's second map: SpaceMap

Galactic View: This is probably the most important tab to look at. Try clicking around on the number buttons. Those are the planets.
At the bottom of the screen there is the planet description. This includes the planets location ID (if you are wondering which planet you
have selected) the name of the planet (not an important function, but it's kinda fun (kinda is an okay word to use right?)), it's population
(look further down for more on population), the number of buildings this planet can hold (if it's full just go steal some more right?), the
current number of buildings, and the numbers of each type. On the right you will notice there is more information. This is the important
information about you. It includes your name, total population (again for information on what population does look down further in the
document), the amounts of resources (see lower for more information (there has to be organization to this document)), your population
growth rate (go lower for more), your total fleet size, the a list of planets that are under attack, and a list of the planets where your ships 
are at.

Fleet Control: First select a planet you own that has ships (this tab is basically useless otherwise). On the left you will see many buttons
Most buttons only do stuff when you have selected a ship. To select an individual ship use the select index text box thingy(I forgot it's
proper name, deal with it!) by putting in a number index (shown in the section with your ships). You will note to the far left if you have
selected a specific ship you will see some information about this ship. To upgrade this ship, press the appropriate upgrade button. If you
are like me selecting all those ships to upgrade them is boring which is why I added the nice auto-upgrade button. This tries to upgrade
all your ships until they are all upgraded or you run out of the necessary resources. If your economy is having trouble, you can scrap a
ship by selecting a ship and pressing the scrap button. This gives back half of the resources it took to build the ship (except for the
industry which is lost). Alternatively if your economy is crashing really badly you can use the scrap all button which scraps all of your
ships in a tile (use this button with caution). To move a ship/ships simply select through the indexes (note how it has a separate list for
selected ships) or use the select all button to select the ships you wish to move. Then go to the galactic view and click on the planet you
wish to move to. To deselect ships press the cancel button. For movement the only restriction is that ships can only move to your planets
or to planets that border one of yours.

Constructions: This is where you build stuff (the name constructions kinda gives a hint doesn't it?). To build an item press the buy 
<name> button to buy <name>, but make sure you have selected a planet that you own. If you wish to disperse your buildings (so they
can't take it all at once) go to the options section and select the random planet option for buildings. To build more than one item, change
the number in the upper right . To cancel a specific queue item go to the lower text box thingy left text box thingy and put in the index
of the item to select and press enter. To cancel the entire queue simply push the cancel all button.

Tech: Where you can research techs, (the cost is in money); each level of economic tech gives a 10% bonus (except for mining which
helps metal production by 10% and helps rare production by 5%), and each military tech gives a 5% bonus. At the top of the screen is
the economic information about you.

Government: This is where you can have some flexibility for what you do. To the left is the same information as in the galactic view 
screen. Down lower is the growth rate adjuster (it changes your growth rate, see more at the population section). To the right is the
politician screen (I had fun with the names). Each position must be filled by a politician. Each politician gets a different bonus and 
penalty when they are put in a different position (except for ones that are the same; vice president is the same bonus as the president, 
but divided by 2 (so put your better president bonus in president and the less awesome one in vice president), secondary fleet
commander is the same as fleet commander divided by 2, and foreign minister is the same as galactic council seat holder). Each position
also only gets certain types of bonuses and penalties (science can't affect diplomacy, diplomacy is only in diplomacy and influence, fleet
commanders only affect attack and defense, treasury only affects general resource production and money, and president can affect
anything). I should also note that currently the influence and diplomacy effects don't do anything so good foreign ministers and galactic
council seat holders are useless (and presidents that give an awesome bonus and have their penalty in diplomatic type effects are really
good)

Market: Not added yet

Diplomacy: Not added yet

Galactic Council: Not added yet

Kittens: It's a picture of kittens, do you need instructions on how to use it?

Help: Go here to see nice pictures of what stuff does (not currently added)

Settings: This is where you can set the random location option for buildings and change the map skin to the old (technically it's actually
a newer skin because the old one was for a larger version of the map that was a headache) colorful skin. You can also generate a brand
new map with a second human player and an amount of AI's that you choose (if you put in a human the default is 0, and if you don't put
in a second human player the default is 1, also there is a max of 21 players)

Population: These are your people (and some that weren't your people, isn't conquering stuff fun?). They consume 1 food per turn, and
produce .15 money and .105 resources (sort of, each population has a 1/10000 chance to produce .01 of a rare and whats left produces
.105 resources randomly distributed between food, metal and industry with a slight weight towards food, especially when they ate more
than they made, also this doesn't take into account tech and leader bonuses which are applied to the resource produced). Every population
gained costs 5 food, so be careful with the growth rate (also every population lost gains you 5 food so my dad's idea of cannibalism did
end up in my game (it was an accident but I think I'll keep it)). Remember that a good economy uses population well.

WARNING, IF YOU RUN OUT OF FOOD YOU WILL BE UNABLE TO BUILD SHIPS OR BUILDINGS, MAKE SURE
THAT YOU HAVE ENOUGH FOOD!!!

Buildings: Buildings are your primary source of resources. Due to the way population works you will at least need farms to support
them. Each building costs 20 money per turn to maintain (totally worth it). Building production (which is modified by tech and politician
bonuses) is as follows: farms 3600 food, 7.5 money, factories 1000 industry, 5 money, mines 1200 metal, .5 industry, 15 money, and
.001 of each rare, trade center 825 money, rare mines 35 metal, 50 money, and 10 of it's rare (for more on rates see the resources section).
Defense batteries and hangars defend planets (I think they're cheaper, but I'm not certain).

Combat: Combat occurs only when at the end of a players turn in all of the planets that the player owns that are being attacked. I feel
explaining how exactly it works would be to much work so instead I will give a summary: ships collectively fire at the enemy, and the
damage is spread between the ships based on size. Fighters add a significant amount of attack power but die without a landing place and
also die over time (they have a chance to get hit each round of combat). Ships deal damage based on their attack value, any bonuses, and
a slight amount of random. Damage is absorbed based on defense value and bonuses. When a ships's health reaches zero it dies.

Resources: Your economy is probably the area you will have the most trouble. There are 4 basic resources and 3 rare types. The basic
resources are food, metal, industry, and money. Food is needed to maintain population, metal and industry are needed to produce things,
and money is needed to build buildings, research, and to support your fleet and buildings. Industry is special in that it is only stored
when items are queued. Spare industry is converted at a half rate randomly distributed between metal and food without bonuses. The
rare resources are a less important part of the game. They consist of Uranium, Titanium, and Promethium (I found Promethium on the
periodic table and had to add it). They are used to upgrade your ships. Uranium makes ships cost less to maintain and gives a slight
defense bonus. Titanium gives ships extra health. Promethium increases a ships attack power. These resources are produced in extremely
small amounts by population and mines, and is also produced by mines corresponding to the resource. I have found it is important to be
very careful with your economy because there can be serious consequences if you aren't careful with it. I also should warn you that
IF A RESOURCE IS IN THE NEGATIVE YOU CANNOT BUILD ANYTHING, make sure you have enough food and money. 
I also recommend that if you have negative money that you scrap all or almost all of your fleet, running out of money is far worse than
losing a few planets.